## [v25.1.1-beta2](https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda-operator/releases/tag/charts%2Fredpanda%2Fv25.1.1-beta2) - 2025-05-02
### Added
* Added a chart wide `podTemplate` field which may be used to control Pod attributes chart wide.

  This field has a lower precedence than `statefulset.podTemplate` and
  `post_install_job.podTemplate` but will still be merged with them.
* `podTemplate`, `statefulset.podTemplate`, and `post_install_job.podTemplate` may now contain template expressions **with in string fields**

  To compensate for some of the functionality that was lost with the removal of
  fields like `extraVolumes`, we've upgraded `podTemplate` fields to support
  templating. Rather than allowing full control over a structured value, we've
  reduced the scope to only string fields. This is significantly more
  maintainable and less error prone.

  As an example, the below snippet will apply the release name as an annotation
  to all Pods created by the chart.

  ```yaml
  podTemplate:
    annotations:
      "keys-cannot-be-templated": '{{ .Release.Name }}' # But values can!
  ```

  See `values.yaml` for additional examples.
### Changed
* Promoted the config-watcher sidecar into a real go binary that handles user management and simplifies cluster health checks so they no longer fail when the sole issue is that other nodes in the cluster are unavailable. Additionally the new sidecar subsumes the behavior of the `statefulset.sideCars.controllers` stanza which should now be specified via their own `enabled` flags.
* `clusterDomain` now defaults to `cluster.local.` (A trialing `.` has been added) and the chart no longer adds trailing `.`'s to internal domains.

  For users not experiencing issues with trailing `.`'s this change has no
  effect. For users that have had issues with trailing `.`'s, it's now possible
  to opt-out of this behavior by explicitly setting `clusterDomain` to `cluster.local`.

  For users that override `clusterDomain`, copied a previous releases
  values.yaml, or use the `--reuse-values` flag, trailing `.`'s will be tripped
  from domains upon updating. This behavior may be opted into by appending a
  `.` to `clusterDomain` prior to upgrading.
* Bump AppVersion to v24.3.6 Redpanda release
* Bump Redpanda operator side car container tag to `v2.3.7-24.3.6`.
* `values.schema.json` is now "closed" (`additionalProperties: false`)

  Any unexpected values will result in a validation error,previously they would
  have been ignored.
* Update Console depedency to latest version with breaking change. Please visit Console change-log.
* The name of the container running redpanda is now always set to `redpanda`.
* bumped `appVersion` to [v25.1.1](https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/releases/tag/v25.1.1).
* `serviceAccount.create` now defaults to `true`.

  The previous behavior resulted in using the `default` service account and
  extending it with all bindings generated from the chart. Such behavior is
  unlikely to be desired.
* `rpk debug bundle --namespace $NAMESPACE` now works by default.

  The chart now creates a set of `Roles` and `RoleBindings` that satisfy the
  requirements of running `rpk debug bundle` from any redpanda Pod. These
  permissions may be disabled by specifying `rbac.rpkDebugBundle=false`.

  Additionally, the redpanda container now always has a Kubernetes
  ServiceAccount token mounted to it to ensure `rpk debug bundle` can be
  executed successfully.
### Deprecated
* `.statefulset.sidecars.controllers.image` is now deprecated. It may be specified but will not be respected. Use `.statefulset.sidecars.image` instead.
### Removed
* Connectors sub-chart integration.

  The connectors chart may still be deployed separately, though it is not
  officially support. If possible, it is recommended to migrate to redpanda
  connect.
* Removed the deprecated fields `license_key` and `license_secret_ref` in favor
of `enterprise.license` and `enterprise.licenseSecretRef`, respectively.
* `statefulset.securityContext`, `statefulset.sideCars.configWatcher.securityContext` have been removed.

  These fields previously served as both PodSecurityContext and SecurityContext
  across the entire chart which led to confusing semantics that couldn't be
  fixed without breaking backwards compatiblity.

  The top level `podTemplate` field may be used to control
  PodSecurityContexts and SecurityContexts across the chart.
* Fields that would be better served through `podTemplate` have been removed in favor of using `podTemplate`.

  Removed fields:
  - `nodeSelector` -> `podTemplate.spec.nodeSelector`
  - `affinity` -> `podTemplate.spec.affinity`
  - `tolerations` -> `podTemplate.spec.tolerations`
  - `imagePullSecrets` -> `podTemplate.spec.imagePullSecrets`
  - `statefulset.annotations` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.annotations`
  - `statefulset.startupProbe` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[0].startupProbe`
  - `statefulset.livenessProbe` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[0].livenessProbe`
  - `statefulset.readinessProbe` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[1].readinessProbe`
  - `statefulset.podAffinity` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.affinity.podAffinity`
  - `statefulset.nodeSelector` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.nodeSelector`
  - `statefulset.priorityClassName` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.priorityClassName`
  - `statefulset.tolerations` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.tolerations`
  - `statefulset.topologySpreadConstraints` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.topologySpreadConstraints`
  - `statefulset.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.terminationGracePeriodSeconds`
  - `statefulset.extraVolumes` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.volumes`
  - `statefulset.extraVolumesMounts` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].volumeMounts`
  - `statefulset.initContainers.*.extraVolumesMounts` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.initContainers[*].volumeMounts`
  - `statefulset.initContainers.*.resources` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.initContainers[*].resources`
  - `statefulset.initContainers.extraInitContainers` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.initContainers`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.configWatcher.extraVolumeMounts` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].volumeMounts`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.configWatcher.resources` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].resources`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.configWatcher.securityContext` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].securityContext`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.controllers.resources` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].resources`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.controllers.securityContext` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].securityContext`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.extraVolumeMounts` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].volumeMounts`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.resources` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].resources`
  - `statefulset.sidecars.securityContext` -> `statefulset.podTemplate.spec.containers[*].securityContext`
* Removed regex validation of all image tags.
### Fixed
* Reverse order of applying resources to first create ClusterRole and then ClusterRoleBinding.
  When Redpanda custom resource has enabled RBAC the reconciliation was blocked due
  ClusterRoleBinding referencing not yet created ClusterRole.

* Fixed an issue where not explicitly specifying a SASL auth mechanism when SASL is enabled caused Console to fail to start up.
* Prevent broker nodes from restarting when solely the cluster replica amount changes
* Fixed rack awareness by mounting a service account token to the initcontainer when rack awareness is enabled.
* Broken `Issuer`s and `Certificate`s are no longer needlessly generated when `tls.<cert>.issuerRef` is provided.
* Fixed the security contexts' of `set-datadir-ownership` and `set-tiered-storage-cache-dir-ownership`.
* The `schema_registry_client` and `pandaproxy_client` stanzas of `redpanda.yaml`
  now respect `listeners.kafka.tls.trustStore`, when provided.
  See also [helm-chart 1573 issue](https://github.com/redpanda-data/helm-charts/issues/1573).

