## v2.3.9-24.3.11 - 2025-05-02
### Added
* Added scheduled sync of ghost broker decommissioner to ensure it's running, even if no watches trigger the reconciler.
* v1 operator: ExternalSecretRefSelector is now provided for referring to external secrets in `clusterConfiguration`. This has an `optional` flag which is honoured if present - it turns errors into warnings if the secret can't be looked up.
* [Chart] Added `rbac.createCompatCRs` which intentionally over scopes the operator's RBAC configuration to preserve compatibility with redpanda charts <= v5.10.1 and <=v5.9.22.

  `rbac.createCompatCRs` defaults to `true` to prevent unexpected breakages upon upgrading the operator.
### Changed
* Reconciliation will attempt to create all resources regardless of errors encounter.
  All errors will be reported at the end of the reconciliation loop.

* [Chart] Moved all template rendering into `entry-point.yaml` to match the redpanda and console charts.
* The redpanda operator's helm chart has been merged into the operator itself.

  Going forward the chart's `version` and `appVersion` will always be equal.
* `rbac.createRPKBundleCRs` now defaults to `true`.
* Bumped internal chart version to v5.9.22
### Deprecated
* v1 operator: the `clusterConfiguration` field `ExternalSecretRef` is deprecated in favour of `ExternalSecretRefSelector`. Since this field was extremely new, it will be removed in the very near future.
### Fixed
* Reverse order of applying resources to first create ClusterRole and then ClusterRoleBinding.
  When Redpanda custom resource has enabled RBAC the reconciliation was blocked due
  ClusterRoleBinding referencing not yet created ClusterRole.

* Certificate reloading for webhook and metrics endpoints should now behave correctly.
* The operator will restart the redpanda cluster on any change to the cluster configuration
* Expanded the set of rules in both Roles and ClusterRoles to be appropriately in sync with the redpanda helm chart.
* DeprecatedFullNameOverride was interpreted differently between rendering resources and creating 
  kafka, admin and schema registry client. Now deprecated fullNameOverride will be used only
  if correct FullNameOverride is not provided and handled the same way for both
  client creation and render function.
* The Redpanda license was not set by operator. Now it will be set in the first reconciliation. After initial setup the consequent license re-set will be reconciled after client-go cache resync timeout (default 10h).
