## v2.4.2 - 2025-05-02
### Added
* v1 operator: ExternalSecretRefSelector is now provided for referring to external secrets in `clusterConfiguration`. This has an `optional` flag which is honoured if present - it turns errors into warnings if the secret can't be looked up.
* [Chart] Added `rbac.createCompatCRs` which intentionally over scopes the operator's RBAC configuration to preserve compatibility with redpanda charts <= v5.10.1 and <=v5.9.22.

  `rbac.createCompatCRs` defaults to `true` to prevent unexpected breakages upon upgrading the operator.
### Changed
* `rbac.createRPKBundleCRs` now defaults to `true`.
* Bumped the vendored redpanda chart version to v5.10.2
### Deprecated
* v1 operator: the `clusterConfiguration` field `ExternalSecretRef` is deprecated in favour of `ExternalSecretRefSelector`. Since this field was extremely new, it will be removed in the very near future.
### Fixed
* The operator will restart the redpanda cluster on any change to the cluster configuration
* Expanded the set of rules in both Roles and ClusterRoles to be appropriately in sync with the redpanda helm chart.
* DeprecatedFullNameOverride was interpreted differently between rendering resources and creating 
  kafka, admin and schema registry client. Now deprecated fullNameOverride will be used only
  if correct FullNameOverride is not provided and handled the same way for both
  client creation and render function.
* Fields with embedded structs, such as `auth.sasl.bootstrapUser.secretKeyRef` and `listeners.internal.tls.truststore.configMapKeyRef`, are no longer discarded during rendering of resources.
* The Redpanda license was not set by operator. Now it will be set in the first reconciliation. After initial setup the consequent license re-set will be reconciled after client-go cache resync timeout (default 10h).
