## [v25.1.1](https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda-operator/releases/tag/operator%2Fv25.1.1) - 2025-07-28
### Added
* Added scheduled sync of ghost broker decommissioner to ensure it's running, even if no watches trigger the reconciler.
* v1 operator: ExternalSecretRefSelector is now provided for referring to external secrets in `clusterConfiguration`. This has an `optional` flag which is honoured if present - it turns errors into warnings if the secret can't be looked up.
* Added full lifecycle management support for v1alpha2/Redpanda resources by changing all StatefulSets to leverage OnDelete. Additionally, introduce NodePool statuses to the Redpanda structure and deprecate all old Flux-based status fields.
* statefulset.initContainers.configurator.additionalCLIArgs is added to the helm values, to enable the init container to construct an external secret evaluator.

In the v2 operator, this value is defaulted from the operator's settings.
* Add option to the operator installation to install CRDs as part of the helm install process.
* The annotation `operator.redpanda.com/config-sync-mode: Declarative` may be added to a Redpanda resource to control the mode in which cluster configuration is updated. `Declarative` mode will *remove* any configuration that's not specified on the resource. The default behaviour is `Additive`, wich preserves the current overwrite-only mode.
* Added `noGenerate` to `Password`. When `true`, it prevents the operator from generating non-existent Secrets and non-existent Secret keys that are specified via `valueFrom`
* Annotations that function like Feature Flags will now have their default values added to Custom Resources, if they are not already present.

  This behavior is present to alert users of what feature flags exist, what
  their default values are, and to make it easier to toggle between values. For
  example, `Redpanda`'s will have `operator.redpanda.com/config-sync-mode:
  additive` added as an annotation.
* Add `disabled` to `operator.redpanda.com/config-sync-mode` which completely disabled cluster configuration syncing without blocking the reconciliation loop
### Changed
* [Chart] Moved all template rendering into `entry-point.yaml` to match the redpanda and console charts.
* `values.schema.json` is now "closed" (`additionalProperties: false`)

  Any unexpected values will result in a validation error,previously they would
  have been ignored.
* The redpanda operator's helm chart has been merged into the operator itself.

  Going forward the chart's `version` and `appVersion` will always be equal.
* `rbac.createRPKBundleCRs` now defaults to `true`.
* The operator will now populate `.Statefulset.SideCars.Image`, if unspecified, with it's own image.

  The image and tag may be controlled with pre-existing
  `--configurator-base-image` and `--configurator-tag` flags, respectively.

  The previous behavior was to defer to the default of the redpanda chart which
  could result in out of sync RBAC requirements or regressions of
  sidecar/initcontainer behavior, if using an older redpanda chart.
* Bootstrap expansion in the v2 operator's initContainer now uses CEL-patching for its expansion, much like the v1 operator.

* It is not the case that the OperatorQuiescent condition for the v1 operator cannot be True unless the ClusterConfigured condition is also True.

The status.observedGeneration will only update when the cluster reaches the OperatorQuiescent state.
* The operator will try stripping off a layer of quotation from configuration values when interpreting numeric and boolean values. These may be accidentally introduced upstream of the CR, but where the intent is obvious we don't need to be strict about it.
* Cluster configuration syncing now sends the entire config instead of a minimal patch

  Due to numerous divergences in how the operator, redpanda and their
  respective underlying YAML serde libraries handle marshalling data, computing
  a minimal diff has generally resulted in nasty bugs not worth the few bytes
  and CPU cycles we were initially trying to save.
### Deprecated
* v1 operator: the `clusterConfiguration` field `ExternalSecretRef` is deprecated in favour of `ExternalSecretRefSelector`. Since this field was extremely new, it will be removed in the very near future.
### Removed
* Removed bundled FluxCD controllers, bundled FluxCD CRDs, and support for delegating control to FluxCD.

  Previously reconciled FluxCD resources (`HelmRepository`, `HelmRelease`)
  will **NOT** be garbage collected upon upgrading. If the operator is
  coexisting with a FluxCD installation, please take care to manually remove
  the left over resources.

  `chartRef.useFlux: true` and `chartRef.chartVersion` are no longer
  supported. The controller will log errors and abort reconcilation until the
  fields are unset. Ensure that both have been removed from all `Redpanda`
  resources before upgrading.

  All other `chartRef` fields are deprecated and are no longer referenced.

  `helmRelease`, `helmReleaseReady`, `helmRepository`, `helmRepositoryReady`,
  and `upgradeFailures` are no longer set on `RedpandaStatus`, similar to their
  behavior when `useFlux: false` was set.
* `gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy` container is deprecated and has been removed from the Redpanda
operator helm chart. The same ports will continue to serve metrics using kubebuilder's built in RBAC.

  Any existing prometheus rules don't need to be adjusted.

  For more details see: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/discussions/3907

* The V1 operator now requires a minimum Redpanda version of 23.2; all feature-gated behaviour that supported older versions is now enabled unconditionally.
* The [`kube-prometheus-stack`](https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts) subchart has been removed.

  This integration was not being up kept and most use cases will be better served by deploying this chart themselves.
### Fixed
* Certificate reloading for webhook and metrics endpoints should now behave correctly.
* The operator will restart the redpanda cluster on any change to the cluster configuration
* Expanded the set of rules in both Roles and ClusterRoles to be appropriately in sync with the redpanda helm chart.
* DeprecatedFullNameOverride was interpreted differently between rendering resources and creating 
  kafka, admin and schema registry client. Now deprecated fullNameOverride will be used only
  if correct FullNameOverride is not provided and handled the same way for both
  client creation and render function.
* The Redpanda license was not set by operator. Now it will be set in the first reconciliation. After initial setup the consequent license re-set will be reconciled after client-go cache resync timeout (default 10h).
* The operator now unconditionally produces statefulsets that have environment variables available to the initContainer that are used for CEL-based config patching.

Previously it attempted to leave existing sts resources unpatched if it seemed like they had already been bootstrapped. With the adoption of CEL patching for node configuration, that left sts pods unable to restart.
* The operator now unconditionally produces an environment for the initContainer that supports CEL-based patching.

This is required to ensure that a pre-existing sts can roll over to new configuration correctly.
* Improved support for multi-STSes (e.g., multiple NodePools) in the ghost broker decommissioning logic.

- Desired replicas were previously fetched from a single STS, leading to incorrect broker count decisions when multiple STSes were present. Now, the logic accounts for all STSes.
- Fixed incorrect broker map keying: previously used pod ordinal, which is not unique across STSes (e.g., `blue-0` and `green-0` both mapped to `0`). Switched to using the pod name as the key to correctly distinguish brokers.
- Disabled ordinal-based broker deletion logic in Operator v1 mode, as it doesn't work reliably in a multi-STS setup.

* Setting `serviceAccount.create` to `false` no longer prevents the Kubernetes ServiceAccountToken volume from being mounted to the operator Pod.
* updated operator v1 to ignore "cluster.redpanda.com/node-pool-spec" annotation for pod rolls. previously, under certain conditions, the operator started rolling pods if this annotation changed - but there is no need to do so.
* Added the missing `https` port to the operator Pod that was referenced by the [`ServiceMonitor`](https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda-operator/blob/4e34c5ea79b00fa0caeda64955e3291666194274/operator/chart/servicemonitor.go#L42)
* Empty Redpanda specs (i.e. `clusterSpec: null` or otherwise unspecified) no longer causes the operator to panic
* `get` permissions on `Node` resources is now correctly configured by default.

   `--set rbac.createAdditionalControllerCRs=true` is no longer required for rackawareness to work.
* Fixed a bug where pods would be restarted indefinitely in the case of config version changes when syncing cluster configuration.
* Setting of the `superuser` cluster configuration is now solely controlled by the operator and now correctly includes the `kubernetes-controller` bootstrap user.
* Crashes from the Sidecar container (e.g. due to a temporary API Server outage) no longer forcefully restart the redpanda container.
* `ClusterRole`s for the PVCUnbinder and BrokerDecommissioner are now enabled / disabled when their respective controller is enabled / disabled.

  Previously `ClusterRole`s were always generated and could only be disabled by setting `statefulset.sideCars.controllers.createRBAC` to `false` which rendered the sidecar inoperable.
* Cluster configuration synchronization now correctly handles aliased keys such as `schema_registry_normalize_on_startup`.
