## [v25.2.1](https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda-operator/releases/tag/operator%2Fv25.2.1) - 2025-12-02
### Added
* Roles can be declaratively managed using Role CRD 

* Add experimental support for node pools. To enable node pool support you must install the experimental NodePool CRDs and run the controller with the --enable-v2-nodepools flag.
* Added a new `Console` CRD for managing a [Redpanda Console](https://github.com/redpanda-data/console/) deployments. For examples, see [`acceptance/features/console.feature`](../acceptance/features/console.feature).
* Add ShadowLink experimental CRD for managing new disaster recovery feature in Redpanda.
* Added `status.managedPrincipals` field to RedpandaRole CRD to track whether the operator is managing role membership. The operator now properly reconciles membership changes when spec.principals is updated, including adding, removing, or clearing all principals.
### Changed
* By default, the operator now reconciles resources (`Redpanda`, `Topic`, etc) across _all namespaces_.

  The `--namespace` flag may be used to scope the operator's watches to a single namespace.
* Client certificates are now named `$FULLNAME-$CERT-client-cert`.
* rename Role CRD path from `roles` to `redpandaroles` 
Prevents naming collision with Kubernetes RBAC roles.
### Deprecated
* The Redpanda console stanza (`.spec.clusterSpec.console`) is now deprecated in favor of the stand-alone Console CRD.
* Deprecated various fields in multiple CRDs for `kafka`, `adminAPI`, and `schemaRegistry` under the static configuration of `clusterSource` so that various fields that were only specifiable via an in-cluster secret can now be pulled via either external secret provider, in-cluster secret, config map, or inlined value.
* The entirety of the `spec.clusterSpec.console` block in the Redpanda CR is now deprecated and will be removed in the future. Any Redpanda CR that contains one will automatically be migrated to a standalone Console CR with a back reference to the parent Redpanda CR. Note that these will *not* be automatically deleted when the `console` stanza is removed or when the parent Redpanda CR is deleted.
### Fixed
* Fix a bug with the way the config-watcher sidecar syncs users. The Kubernetes mechanism for writing out a changed secret is involves re-creating a symlink in the secrets directory that points to the mounted secret. Previously the config-watcher only detected changes to the entire directory and could potentially miss syncs, this resyncs everything anytime the symlink is recreated. 
* mTLS client certificates are now generated per certificate, as required, instead of using a single and potentially invalid certificate.
* Rename Role CRD resource path to avoid kubectl collision
