## v25.1.1-beta1 - 2025-04-10
### Added
* Added scheduled sync of ghost broker decommissioner to ensure it's running, even if no watches trigger the reconciler.
### Changed
* Bumped internal redpanda chart to  v5.9.19.
  `chartRef` now defaults to v5.9.19.
  When `useFlux` is `false`, the equivalent of chart v5.9.19 will be deployed.

* Bumped the internal chart version to v5.9.20.
* [Chart] Moved all template rendering into `entry-point.yaml` to match the redpanda and console charts.
* The redpanda operator's helm chart has been merged into the operator itself.

  Going forward the chart's `version` and `appVersion` will always be equal.
### Removed
* Removed bundled FluxCD controllers, bundled FluxCD CRDs, and support for delegating control to FluxCD.

  Previously reconciled FluxCD resources (`HelmRepository`, `HelmRelease`)
  will **NOT** be garbage collected upon upgrading. If the operator is
  coexisting with a FluxCD installation, please take care to manually remove
  the left over resources.

  `chartRef.useFlux: true` and `chartRef.chartVersion` are no longer
  supported. The controller will log errors and abort reconcilation until the
  fields are unset. Ensure that both have been removed from all `Redpanda`
  resources before upgrading.

  All other `chartRef` fields are deprecated and are no longer referenced.

  `helmRelease`, `helmReleaseReady`, `helmRepository`, `helmRepositoryReady`,
  and `upgradeFailures` are no longer set on `RedpandaStatus`, similar to their
  behavior when `useFlux: false` was set.
* `gcr.io/kubebuilder/kube-rbac-proxy` container is deprecated and has been removed from the Redpanda
operator helm chart. The same ports will continue to serve metrics using kubebuilder's built in RBAC.

Any existing prometheus rules don't need to be adjusted.

For more details see: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/discussions/3907

* The V1 operator now requires a minimum Redpanda version of 23.2; all feature-gated behaviour that supported older versions is now enabled unconditionally.
### Fixed
* Usage of `tpl` and `include` now function as expected when `useFlux: false` is set.

  `{{ (get (fromJson (include "redpanda.Fullname" (dict "a" (list .)))) "r") }}` would previously failure with fairly arcane errors.

  Now, the above example will correctly render to a string value. However,
  syntax errors and the like are still reported in an arcane fashion.

* Toggling `useFlux`, in either direction, no longer causes the bootstrap user's password to be regenerated.

  Manual mitigation steps are available [here](https://github.com/redpanda-data/helm-charts/issues/1596#issuecomment-2628356953).
* Certificate reloading for webhook and metrics endpoints should now behave correctly.
* Expanded the set of rules in both Roles and ClusterRoles to be appropriately in sync with the redpanda helm chart.
